the Scottish Wildcat what it lacks in
size it makes up for in ferocity
nicknamed the Highland Tiger this cat is
even more endangered than its striped
Asian cousin this is not a domestic cat
that has gone wild this is a truly wild
animal that moved in here shortly after
the glaciers left Britain
unfortunately it really is in trouble
it's range has contracted and massively
from once having covered the whole of
Britain to just parts of the Scottish
Highlands but the real problem of the
wild cat phases is because it's quite
closely related genetically to the
domestic cat it can actually interbreed
and produce fertile hybrids and this is
a real problem because as with each
passing generation the wild cat is
becoming more and more diluted and less
and less distinctive of that native
animal that we've had for so long and in
Scotland
a coordinated conservation effort a
setup scottish wildcat action it's the
first national effort to protect the
cats in the wild and has established a
conservation breeding program
Douglas Richardson as head of living
collections at the highland wildlife
park i firmly believe that a healthy
captive population of Scottish Wildcats
in high-quality environments will be
crucial to the survival of the species
at the very least that safety net role
that they play I'm someone alluded to
captive breeding programs are like
lifeboats on an ocean liner you hope you
never have to use one that's nice to
know that they're they're captive bred
wild cats like eleven-year-old Hamish
are being exchanged between parks to
mate with genetically strong females to
secure the future bloodline today Hamish
is being loaned to the a gas-filled
center near Inverness in the hope that
he'll breed with one of their female
Wildcats
hello what's all this yes I'm he's quite
a character he's not it's all dangerous
though saying that I wouldn't want him
to land on the top of my head and he's
very good with females and he's
excellent with his offspring I've
actually seen him carrying and cleaning
his curtains on occasion if Hamish and
his female companions are successful
their descendants may eventually be
released back into the highlands but
only into protected areas I want to get
that captive program to a level that if
it all goes belly-up as far as the wild
population is concerned we still have
that cushion it's not just a bit captive
breeding in some of these facilities
it's about education and raising
awareness making people aware that we
have this fantastic animal living in the
wild here in Scotland and it does need
our help
you
[Music]